- [Instructor] HPlus Sport Drink IT Manager
has directed that we go forward with installing
the latest Java EE version of the web application.
We know there might be some issues here
because Tomcat does not readily support Java EE APIs.
When it comes to addressing missing JEE functionality
and capabilities in Tomcat,
there are varied ways to remediate this.
Sometimes this includes copying
the missing API jar to the lib directory,
like we did previously with missing MySQL driver.
Sometimes it means doing something a little different,
like including the missing dependencies
within the build file.
For this video,
we've provided a simple CDI application,
a Contexts, Dependencies and Injection web app,
which is designed to cause
a standard Tomcat installation to fail.
Let's compile our project in practice_files, 01_06
_begin.
We'll type the command gradle clean build.
Assuming you don't have any errors,
let's move on with deploying.
We'll come back to our Tomcat terminal here.
I'm going to cd back one directory.
Actually, I'm going to cd into the webapps directory.
Clear the screen.
Here we go.
And we're going to copy
from our practice_files
Chapter_01
01_06
_begin,
the build/libs,
there it is.
We'll copy this,
and there you go.
If we watch this,
we'll actually see it deploy fairly quickly.
And there's our hplus-simple
directory that deployed.
Now, Tomcat is obviously already running in this scenario.
So we've deployed the application
that has built-in CDI functionality
and we're going to demonstrate
that the app will fail in Tomcat,
so what we're going to do is we're going to go to our browser.
We have the application running as it is right now,
and we're going to change the path up here
to message, which is a URL-designed
to access the CDI functionality within this app.
We'll hit Enter and we get what I expected,
a NullPointerException.
Now, the NullPointerException tells us
it occurred at line 22 within MyServlet.
So, let's dig into this application real quick
and see what's going on.
We can open up IntelliJ
and we're going to go to the MyServlet class in line 22.
And line 22 is telling us that basically this object
is null,
and we know it's null because, well,
it has an Inject on it,
and this tells us that Tomcat is not doing its work
'cause it doesn't support CDI.
So how do we address this issue?
Well, we have to do couple of things first.
Because Tomcat doesn't have the necessary dependencies,
we need to make sure that in our build.gradle script
that they're available.
Now, I've already commented out the dependencies here for us
to make this quicker.
So we have a javax.servlet that was commented out
and the weld.servlet,
and weld.servlet is the actual implementation that we need,
which Tomcat doesn't have.
The other thing that we need to do is in our web.xml.
The application would not work in Tomcat
in a normal scenario because the listener is not available,
so we have to apply a listener within our web.xml here.
So we're going to uncommment the listener again, choosing weld.
And the last thing we need to do is go to our context.xml
and make sure that the BeanManager is set up.
Again, the BeanManager is using our weld library.
With all of these things done,
we're going to go back to the Terminal, to the command line,
we'll come back to our practice_files,
we'll type in gradle clean build.
And I need to say these dependencies
will most likely present issues later on
when we deploy this application
to WebLogic, Jboss, and GlassFish,
because those app servers
already have the missing API dependencies.
And because they have the dependencies within them,
there'll be conflicts
between which library needs to be used.
We'll address that later.
So our project should be recompiled and let's redeploy.
We'll come back over here.
And I think I have the command still on,
there it is.
We'll hit Enter again.
If we do an ls -la,
we'll see that the application is here.
It copied it over.
And let's switch back to our browser.
We have the error that's there from last time,
so let's refresh
and now it's gone.
Now, to demonstrate this is the message
that's been populated,
so we're going to take this out, hit Enter, come back,
type message that accesses the CDI,
and then there's our message, it's populated.
As you move forward
with your app development and deployment,
pay close attention to what is happening
in the catalina.logs and the localhost logs
regarding how Tomcat is Java EE compliant.
It's a process of learning to read the logs
and then search for an answer via the documentation,
and sometimes you could find the answer
by basically Googling it or going to Stack Overflow.
These sites will basically point out
the missing library or API that Tomcat does not have
and that you need to add to your dependencies.